Update Working With JavaScript guide for Rails 7, scrap Node/Yarn from Getting Started guide (#43957)
rails/rails: guides/source/working_with_javascript_in_rails.md

Working with JavaScript in Rails
================================

> This guide covers the options for integrating JavaScript functionality into your Rails application; including the options you have for using external JavaScript packages and how to use Turbo with Rails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide covers the options for integrating JavaScript functionality into your Rails application, including the options you have for using external JavaScript packages and how to use Hotwire with Rails.
```

After reading this guide, you will know:

* How to use Rails without the need for a Node, Yarn, or a JavaScript bundler
* How to create a new Rails application using esbuild, rollup, or webpack to bundle your JavaScript
* What Turbo is
* How to use the Turbo HTML helpers provided by Rails

———————————————————————————————————————

Import maps
————————————

> [Import maps](https://github.com/rails/importmap-rails) let you import JavaScript modules using logical names that map to versioned/digested files directly from the browser. Import maps are the new default for Rails 7, allowing anyone to build modern JavaScript applications using JavaScript libraries built for ESM without the need for transpiling or bundling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Import maps](https://github.com/rails/importmap-rails) let you import JavaScript modules using logical names that map to versioned files directly from the browser. Import maps are the default from Rails 7, allowing anyone to build modern JavaScript applications using most node packages without the need for transpiling or bundling.
```

Digesting is neat but I think the versioning bit is more important.

Applications using import maps do not need Node or Yarn to function. If you plan to use Rails with importmap-rails to manage your JavaScript dependencies, you can use Rails without needing to install Node or Yarn.

When using import maps, no separate build step is required, just start your server with `rails s` and you are good to go.

### Adding NPM packages with importmap-rails
To add new packages to your import map-powered application, run the `importmap pin` command from your terminal:

```bash
./bin/importmap pin alpinejs
```

Then, import the package into `application.js` as usual:
```javascript

> import Alpine from 'alpinejs'

Reviewer: No personal opinion on alpine, but I think it would be better to use Stimulus as an example since it's in the Rails tent.

Author: That's fair — I didn't use Stimulus/Turbo since those are going to be installed automatically for most folks who are using import maps, but maybe that's over thinking it a bit. I'll make that switch.

Reviewer: Hmmm, that's a good point.

Maybe use the react example from https://github.com/rails/importmap-rails#how-do-importmaps-work so it's consistent?

```

Bundlers
————————————
Import maps are the default for new Rails applications but if your application requires traditional JavaScript bundling, you can create new Rails applications with your choice of esbuild, Webpack, or rollup.js.

> To use a bundler instead of import maps in a new Rails application, pass the `—javascript` or `-j` option to `rails new`:

Reviewer: Do you think it's worth explaining how to switch from import maps to a bundler if you need to? Even a really high level statement saying that it's possible might help.

Reviewer: I think @rubys had some thoughts on how possible it really is...

Reviewer 2: At the moment, I don't thing the guide should leave any impression that the choice you make now is one that you are stuck with for the life of the project.  It is not just a matter of switching from import maps to bundlers, but that turbo installs differently depending on that choice, as does stimulus, and (if you use either or both) does action cable and tailwind.  Your best best is to uninstall each in the proper order, and the reinstall them in the reverse order.  And there is no tooling support as of yet for uninstalling.  And that's just the gems that are maintained by the rails team - there may be third party gems with similar considerations.

I have no trouble with the `--api` and `--no-api` split.  If you know your client with be created with create-react-app, there are parts of Rails you won't ever need or use, so why install them?  If you decide later to add create-react-app, your may have parts of Rails you no longer use, but there is no urgent need to remove them.

The split between bundler and install map is not so clean.  I really would like a story to be something along the lines of unless you are absolutely certain you can't live without features like tree-shaking, make your life simpler by going with import maps.  I really do believe that you can build internet-scale apps using "only" Turbo, Stimulus, and Action Cable, and that Rails should be leading with that story.

But then there are things like Web Components which seems to be a rising star, and fits in well with a Rails import map application.  What concerns me is that much of that is moving towards TypeScript for the developer experience of things like IntelliSense in VIsual Studio Code, and the only support Rails currently has for TS is through bundlers.  So, unfortunately, there is a good case to be made for the position that if you might ever want something like that in the future, selecting a bundler at the start of the project is a good idea as it keeps this option open.  Even if you pick the wrong bundler - switching between bundlers is easier than switching from no bundler to bundler.

If there is interest in fixing any of this, I'll be glad to contribute code to the effort.

Author: Thanks for the thoughts on this @ghiculescu and @rubys

It sounds like we might be missing a section on which option to choose that:

- Leads with import maps as the default choice — this could be an appropriate place to paraphrase and link out to DHH's "3 great answers to JavaScript" post
- Shares the most prominent reasons you may wish to use a bundler instead (TypeScript, tree shaking, JS libraries that bundle CSS)
- Notes that any choice made when you create your application is not permanent without getting into the details of how to migrate from one to other. If you're moving from import maps to a bundler you can mostly get there from following the jsbundling install script errors but that doesn't seem well suited for this type of guide.

If this sounds right I can work on a first pass of that section later today.

Reviewer 2: I agree with the first two bullets.  I feel that the third bullet would be leading people astray.  Before proceeding, I encourage you to try the following:

```
rails new throwaway
cd throwaway
bundle add jsbundling-rails 
./bin/rails javascript:install:esbuild
```

Observe the errors produced, and try to resolve.

Author: [Here's a gist](https://gist.github.com/DavidColby/3c176b70b9d8e3a450648361c5d05635) that covers everything needed to go from fresh Rails 7 + Hotwire + import maps to Hotwire + esbuild.

This obviously becomes more complex as you add dependencies. If it feels useful to demonstrate the basic steps for folks in the guide I'm happy to include the specific steps or an outline of what to do without the exact commands.

Reviewer 2: I haven't reviewed this closely yet, but from a quick read: won't that leave things behind in assets/config/manifest.js?

We should compare notes.  My take on this: https://github.com/rubys/rails-uninstaller-tasks.  I believe that there needs to be more than a gist - there needs to be both a guide (separate from "getting started") and supporting tooling (my initial sketch was based on rails tasks, but there could be other means of getting this done).

Author: That's certainly possible.

I ran through quickly with the goal of booting up a default import maps powered application, confirming Turbo/Stimulus work in dev, ripping out import maps, adding esbuild, and getting back to the same dev state with Turbo/Stimulus working. There may be 1) things I'm missing in dev, particularly once a few external libs have been pinned and 2) production considerations that I've overlooked.

If you have time to review the gist a bit more and can provide feedback I'm all ears.

Stepping back a bit: for the purposes of this PR, I wonder if this detailed review of the switching steps needs to be included in the content.

I think it makes to include a note about the ability to switch along with a caution that switching may be time consuming if they need to do so at some point after `rails new`. We can encourage readers to think a bit about which option they choose while making it clear that it isn't impossible to migrate later, if they decide to.

The *how* of migrating feels better suited for a separate guide or, as you've proposed, a set of migration tasks that exist in importmap-rails/jsbundling-rails. At that point, adding a note to this guide that points the reader in the right direction could be added.

Reviewer: > I think it makes to include a note about the ability to switch along with a caution that switching may be time consuming if they need to do so at some point after `rails new`. We can encourage readers to think a bit about which option they choose while making it clear that it isn't impossible to migrate later, if they decide to.

Yeah, I'm on board with this. Otherwise this could become a very long doc.

> The _how_ of migrating feels better suited for a separate guide or, as you've proposed, a set of migration tasks that exist in importmap-rails/jsbundling-rails. At that point, adding a note to this guide that points the reader in the right direction could be added.

I think this is probably the right guide for this to live in, but maybe this isn't the right PR for it.

```
rails new the_next_billion_dollar_app -j esbuild
OR
rails new the_next_billion_dollar_app --javascript=webpack
```

These bundling options each comes with a simple configuration and integration with the asset pipeline via the [jsbundling-rails](https://github.com/rails/jsbundling-rails) gem.

When using a bundling option, use `bin/dev` to start the Rails server and build JavaScript for development.

### Installing Node and Yarn
If you are using a JavaScript bundler in your Rails application, Node and Yarn must be installed.

Find the installation instructions at the  [Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)  and verify it’s installed correctly with the following command:

```bash
node --version
```

The version of your Node.js runtime should be printed out. Make sure it’s greater than 8.16.0.

To install Yarn, follow the installation instructions at the  [Yarn website](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install) .
Running this command should print out Yarn version:

```bash
yarn --version
```

If it says something like 1.22.0, Yarn has been installed correctly.

Turbo
————————————

> Whether you choose import maps or a traditional bundler, Rails ships with[Turbo](https://turbo.hotwired.dev/) to speed up your application while dramatically reducing the amount of custom JavaScript that you will need to write.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether you choose import maps or a traditional bundler, Rails ships with [Turbo](https://turbo.hotwired.dev/) to speed up your application while dramatically reducing the amount of custom JavaScript that you will need to write.
```

```ruby
def create
  @post = Post.new(post_params)

  respond_to do |format|
    if @post.save
      format.turbo_stream { render turbo_stream: turbo_stream.prepend('posts', partial: 'post') }
    else
      format.html { render :new, status: :unprocessable_entity }
    end
  end
end
```

Finally, Turbo Streams can be initiated from a model or a background job using built-in helpers. These broadcasts can be used to update content via a WebSocket connection to all users, keeping page content fresh and bringing your application to life.

To broadcast a Turbo Stream from a model combine a model callback like this:

```ruby
class Post < ApplicationRecord
  after_create_commit { broadcast_append_to('posts') }
end
```

With a WebSocket connection set up on the page that should receive the updates like this:

```erb
<%= turbo_stream_from "posts" %>
```

Learn more about Turbo Streams in the [Turbo Handbook](https://turbo.hotwired.dev/handbook/streams).

Replacements for Rails/UJS functionality
————————————

Rails UJS allowed developers to override the `method` of `<a>` tags to perform non-GET requests after a hyperlink click and to add confirmation dialogs before executing an action.

> Turbo provides built in replacements for both.

Reviewer: Since UJs is soft deprecated, I'm not sure it should be mentioned here, as it would confuse new users.

Author: I left this in since its a pretty common question for folks migrating to Turbo from Rails UJS. Perhaps they'll just figure it out but acknowledging the transition feels correct to me.

Reviewer: Okay, how about this then

> Rails ships with a tool called UJs that allows developers to override the `method` of `<a>` tags to perform non-GET requests after a hyperlink click and to add confirmation dialogs before executing an action. This was the default before Rails 7, but it is now recommended to use Turbo instead.

Author: Made a small edit here since Rails no longer ships with UJS.

### Method

> Activating hyperlinks always results in an HTTP GET request. However, if your application is [RESTful](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_State_Transfer), some links are in fact actions that change data on the server, and must be performed with non-GET requests. This attribute allows marking up such links with an explicit method such as “post”, “put” or “delete”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clicking links always results in an HTTP GET request. If your application is [RESTful](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_State_Transfer), some links are in fact actions that change data on the server, and should be performed with non-GET requests. This attribute allows marking up such links with an explicit method such as “post”, “put” or “delete”.
```

Reviewer: Maybe it's worth also mentioning `button_to`?

Author: Do you mean mentioning `button_to` as an alternative to using links with non-standard methods?

Reviewer: Yeah, similar to how https://turbo.hotwired.dev/handbook/drive#performing-visits-with-a-different-method says

> You should also consider that for accessibility reasons, it’s better if use actual forms and buttons for anything that’s not a GET.

### Adding NPM packages with importmap-rails
To add new packages to your import map-powered application, run the `importmap pin` command from your terminal:

```bash
./bin/importmap pin react react-dom
```

Then, import the package into `application.js` as usual:
```javascript
import React from 'react'
import ReactDOM from "react-dom"
```

Bundlers
————————————
Import maps are the default for new Rails applications but if your application requires traditional JavaScript bundling, you can create new Rails applications with your choice of esbuild, Webpack, or rollup.js.

To use a bundler instead of import maps in a new Rails application, pass the `—javascript` or `-j` option to `rails new`:
```
rails new the_next_billion_dollar_app -j esbuild
OR
rails new the_next_billion_dollar_app --javascript=webpack
```

These bundling options each comes with a simple configuration and integration with the asset pipeline via the [jsbundling-rails](https://github.com/rails/jsbundling-rails) gem.

When using a bundling option, use `bin/dev` to start the Rails server and build JavaScript for development.

### Installing Node and Yarn

> If you are using a JavaScript bundler in your Rails application, Node and Yarn must be installed.

Author: Not sure I'm following what's needed on some of these new line suggestions — should just be one blank line, not two, right?

> If you are using a JavaScript bundler in your Rails application, Node and Yarn must be installed.

Reviewer 3: Yeah I missed that there was one already there sometimes with the noisy diff. Ignore the ones that line break twice

Find the installation instructions at the  [Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)  and verify it’s installed correctly with the following command:

```bash
node --version
```

The version of your Node.js runtime should be printed out. Make sure it’s greater than 8.16.0.

To install Yarn, follow the installation instructions at the  [Yarn website](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install) .
Running this command should print out Yarn version:

```bash
yarn --version
```

If it says something like 1.22.0, Yarn has been installed correctly.

> Choosing Between Import Maps and a JavaScript Bundler

Author: @rubys @ghiculescu Here's a first cut at addressing the conversation about which to choose and the challenges of migrating. Very much open to improvements on this section, I'm not confident I've properly captured the why of import maps well enough. There may also be room for improvement on the encouragement to carefully consider the choice.

Reviewer: I really like this!

————————————

> When you create a new Rails application, you will need to choose between import maps and a JavaScript bundling solution. Every application has different requirements, and you should consider your requirements carefully before choosing a JavaScript option. The choice that you make is not permanent; however, migrating from one option to another may be time consuming for large, complex applications.

Reviewer 2: I would be happier if you were to replace ". The choice that you make is not permanent; however, " with "as".  This change would avoids the issue of discussing whether the migration is difficult enough to be effectively beyond the reach of a class of Rails developers, effectively making it permanent for them.

Import maps are the default option because the Rails team believes in import maps potential for reducing complexity, improving developer experience, and delivering performance gains.

For many applications, especially those that rely primarily on the Hotwire stack for their JavaScript needs, import maps will be the right option for the long term. You can read more about the reasoning behind making import maps the default in Rails 7 [here](https://world.hey.com/dhh/rails-7-will-have-three-great-answers-to-javascript-in-2021-8d68191b).

Other applications may still need a traditional JavaScript bundler. Requirements that indicate that you should choose a traditional bundler include:
* If your code reqiures a transpilation step, such as JSX or TypeScript.

> * If you need to use JavaScript libraries that include CSS.

Reviewer: I'm not reallly sure what this line means - do you have an example?

Author: Something like [this](https://react-day-picker.js.org/docs/getting-started) which packages some CSS along side a React component that must be imported along with the JS.

I may be incorrect in my assumption, but I think in those cases import maps won't work, or will require a significant amount of effort to get the package functioning.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps generalize this to encompass all webpack loaders: https://webpack.js.org/loaders/

Author: Updated to include a general note about reliance on webpack loaders

> * If you are absolutely sure that you need tree-shaking.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* If you are absolutely sure that you need [tree-shaking](https://webpack.js.org/guides/tree-shaking/).
```
Also 😂 I love the wording

> * If you will install Bootstrap, Bulma, PostCSS, or Dart CSS through the [cssbundling-rails gem](https://github.com/rails/cssbundling-rails). All options provided by this gem except Tailwind will automatically install esbuild for you if you do not specify a different option in `rails new`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* If you will install Bootstrap, Bulma, PostCSS, or Dart CSS through the [cssbundling-rails gem](https://github.com/rails/cssbundling-rails). All options provided by this gem except Tailwind will automatically install `esbuild` for you if you do not specify a different option in `bin/rails new`.
```

> Turbo

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Turbo
```

————————————

> Whether you choose import maps or a traditional bundler, Rails ships with [Turbo](https://turbo.hotwired.dev/) to speed up your application while dramatically reducing the amount of custom JavaScript that you will need to write.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Whether you choose import maps or a traditional bundler, Rails ships with [Turbo](https://turbo.hotwired.dev/) to speed up your application while dramatically reducing the amount of JavaScript that you will need to write.
```
Nitpick

> Turbo lets your server deliver HTML directly as an alternative to the prevailing front-end frameworks that reduce the server side of your Rails application to little more than a JSON API.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Turbo lets your server deliver HTML directly as an alternative to the prevailing front-end frameworks that reduce the server-side of your Rails application to little more than a JSON API.
```

### Turbo Drive

> Turbo Drive speeds up page loads by avoiding full-page teardowns and rebuilds on every navigation request. Turbo Drive is an improvement on and a replacement for Turbolinks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

[Turbo Drive](https://turbo.hotwired.dev/handbook/drive) speeds up page loads by avoiding full-page teardowns and rebuilds on every navigation request. Turbo Drive is an improvement on and replacement for Turbolinks.
```

> Read more about Turbo Drive in the [Turbo Handbook](https://turbo.hotwired.dev/handbook/drive).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Probably unnecessary if we link earlier.

### Turbo Frames

> Turbo Frames allow predefined parts of a page to be updated on request, without impacting the rest of the page’s content.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

[Turbo Frames](https://turbo.hotwired.dev/handbook/frames) allow predefined parts of a page to be updated on request, without impacting the rest of the page’s content.
```

You can use Turbo Frames to build in-place editing without any custom JavaScript, lazy load content, and create server-rendered, tabbed interfaces with ease.

Rails provides HTML helpers to simplify the use of Turbo Frames through the [turbo-rails](https://github.com/hotwired/turbo-rails) gem.

Using this gem, you can add a Turbo Frame to your application with the `turbo_frame_tag` helper like this:

```erb
<%= turbo_frame_tag dom_id(post) do %>
  <div>
     <%= link_to post.title, post_path(path) %>
  </div>
<% end %>
```

> Learn more about Turbo Frames in the [Turbo Handbook](https://turbo.hotwired.dev/handbook/frames).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Again, if we link earlier this probably is not needed.

### Turbo Streams

> Turbo Streams deliver page changes as fragments of HTML wrapped in self-executing `<turbo-stream>` elements. Turbo Streams allow you to broadcast changes made by other users over WebSockets and update pieces of a page after a form submission without requiring a full page turn.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Turbo Streams](https://turbo.hotwired.dev/handbook/streams) deliver page changes as fragments of HTML wrapped in self-executing `<turbo-stream>` elements. Turbo Streams allow you to broadcast changes made by other users over WebSockets and update pieces of a page after a form submission without requiring a full page load.
```

    if @post.save
      format.turbo_stream
    else
      format.html { render :new, status: :unprocessable_entity }
    end
  end
end
```

Rails will automatically look for a `.turbo_stream.erb` view file and render that view when found.

Turbo Stream responses can also be rendered inline in the controller action:

```ruby
def create
  @post = Post.new(post_params)

  respond_to do |format|
    if @post.save
      format.turbo_stream { render turbo_stream: turbo_stream.prepend('posts', partial: 'post') }
    else
      format.html { render :new, status: :unprocessable_entity }
    end
  end
end
```

Finally, Turbo Streams can be initiated from a model or a background job using built-in helpers. These broadcasts can be used to update content via a WebSocket connection to all users, keeping page content fresh and bringing your application to life.

To broadcast a Turbo Stream from a model combine a model callback like this:

```ruby
class Post < ApplicationRecord
  after_create_commit { broadcast_append_to('posts') }
end
```

With a WebSocket connection set up on the page that should receive the updates like this:

```erb
<%= turbo_stream_from "posts" %>
```

> Learn more about Turbo Streams in the [Turbo Handbook](https://turbo.hotwired.dev/handbook/streams).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
As with the previous style to linking to external resources, I think linking on the first mention of the linkable thing is more helpful, so let's stick with that.

> Replacements for Rails/UJS functionality

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Replacements for Rails/UJS functionality
```

————————————

> Rails 6 shipped with a tool called UJS that allows developers to override the method of <a> tags to perform non-GET requests after a hyperlink click and to add confirmation dialogs before executing an action. This was the default before Rails 7, but it is now recommended to use Turbo instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Rails 6 shipped with a tool called UJS that allows developers to override the method of `<a>` tags to perform non-GET requests after a hyperlink click and to add confirmation dialogs before executing an action. This was the default before Rails 7, but it is now recommended to use Turbo instead.
```

> ### Method

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

### Method
```

> Clicking links always results in an HTTP GET request. If your application is [RESTful](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_State_Transfer), some links are in fact actions that change data on the server, and should be performed with non-GET requests. This attribute allows marking up such links with an explicit method such as “post”, “put” or “delete”.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Clicking links always results in an HTTP GET request. If your application is [RESTful](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_State_Transfer), some links are in fact actions that change data on the server, and should be performed with non-GET requests. This attribute allows marking up such links with an explicit method such as "post", "put", or "delete".
```

Turbo will scan `<a>` tags in your application for the `turbo-method` data attribute and use the specified method when present, overriding the default GET action.

For example:

```erb
<%= link_to "Delete post", post_path(post), data: { turbo_method: "delete" } %>
```

This generates:

```html
<a data-turbo-method="delete" href="...">Delete post</a>
```

An alternative to changing the method of a link with `data-turbo-method` is to use Rails `button_to` helper. For accessibility reasons, actual buttons and forms are preferable for any non-GET action.

### Confirmations

> You can ask for an extra confirmation of the user by adding a `data-turbo-confirm` attribute on links and forms. The user will be presented with a JavaScript `confirm()` dialog containing the attribute’s text. If the user chooses to cancel, the action doesn’t take place.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can ask for an extra confirmation of the user by adding a `data-turbo-confirm` attribute on links and forms. The user will be presented with a JavaScript `confirm()` dialog containing the attribute’s text. If the user chooses to cancel, the action doesn't take place.
```

Working with JavaScript in Rails
================================

This guide covers the options for integrating JavaScript functionality into your Rails application, including the options you have for using external JavaScript packages and how to use Turbo with Rails.

After reading this guide, you will know:

> * How to use Rails without the need for a [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/), [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/), or a JavaScript bundler.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* How to use Rails without the need for a [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/), [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/), or a JavaScript bundler.
```

* How to create a new Rails application using [import maps](https://github.com/rails/importmap-rails), [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/), [rollup](https://rollupjs.org/guide/en/), or [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) to bundle your JavaScript.
* What [Turbo](https://turbo.hotwired.dev/) is, and how to use it.
* How to use the Turbo HTML helpers provided by Rails.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Import maps
-----------

[Import maps](https://github.com/rails/importmap-rails) let you import JavaScript modules using logical names that map to versioned files directly from the browser. Import maps are the default from Rails 7, allowing anyone to build modern JavaScript applications using most NPM packages without the need for transpiling or bundling.

> Applications using import maps do not need Node or Yarn to function. If you plan to use Rails with `importmap-rails` to manage your JavaScript dependencies, there is no need to install Node or Yarn.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Applications using import maps do not need Node.js or Yarn to function. If you plan to use Rails with `importmap-rails` to manage your JavaScript dependencies, there is no need to install Node.js or Yarn.
```

When using import maps, no separate build process is required, just start your server with `bin/rails server` and you are good to go.

### Adding NPM packages with importmap-rails

To add new packages to your import map-powered application, run the `bin/importmap pin` command from your terminal:

```bash
bin/importmap pin react react-dom
```

Then, import the package into `application.js` as usual:
```javascript
import React from "react"
import ReactDOM from "react-dom"
```

> Bundlers

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Adding NPM packages with JavaScript Bundlers
```

--------

Import maps are the default for new Rails applications, but if you prefer traditional JavaScript bundling, you can create new Rails applications with your choice of `esbuild`, `webpack`, or `rollup.js`.

To use a bundler instead of import maps in a new Rails application, pass the `—javascript` or `-j` option to `bin/rails new`:
```
bin/rails new my_new_app --javascript=webpack
OR
bin/rails new my_new_app --javascript=webpack
```

These bundling options each come with a simple configuration and integration with the asset pipeline via the [jsbundling-rails](https://github.com/rails/jsbundling-rails) gem.

When using a bundling option, use `bin/dev` to start the Rails server and build JavaScript for development.

> ### Installing Node and Yarn

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Installing Node.js and Yarn
```

> If you are using a JavaScript bundler in your Rails application, Node and Yarn must be installed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you are using a JavaScript bundler in your Rails application, Node.js and Yarn must be installed.
```

> Find the installation instructions at the [Node website](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) and verify it’s installed correctly with the following command:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Find the installation instructions at the [Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) and verify it’s installed correctly with the following command:
```

```bash
node --version
```

> The version of your Node runtime should be printed out. Make sure it’s greater than `8.16.0`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The version of your Node.js runtime should be printed out. Make sure it’s greater than `8.16.0`.
```

[Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) to function. If you plan to use Rails with `importmap-rails` to
manage your JavaScript dependencies, there is no need to install Node.js or Yarn.

When using import maps, no separate build process is required, just start your server with
`bin/rails server` and you are good to go.

### Adding NPM Packages with importmap-rails

To add new packages to your import map-powered application, run the `bin/importmap pin` command
from your terminal:

```bash
bin/importmap pin react react-dom
```

Then, import the package into `application.js` as usual:
```javascript
import React from "react"
import ReactDOM from "react-dom"
```

Adding NPM Packages with JavaScript Bundlers
--------

Import maps are the default for new Rails applications, but if you prefer traditional JavaScript
bundling, you can create new Rails applications with your choice of
[esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/), [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/), or
[rollup.js](https://rollupjs.org/guide/en/).

To use a bundler instead of import maps in a new Rails application, pass the `—javascript` or `-j`
option to `bin/rails new`:
```
bin/rails new my_new_app --javascript=webpack
OR

> bin/rails new my_new_app --javascript=webpack

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
bin/rails new my_new_app -j=webpack
```
Sorry, one last thing. I just realized these two lines are the same.

Author: Nice catch, thanks!

Also, looking at this again, should these commands just be `rails new` instead of `bin/rails new`? I've always used `bin/rails` for app-level commands like `bin/rails server`, not for `rails new`. Looking at other guides and it seems that almost all use `rails new`

Reviewer 3: You're right. Let's go with `rails new`. My mistake ❤️

Author: Perfect, made that change and fixed the `-j` option. Also fixed up bash formatting to lead with a $, matching the rest of the guides.

Thanks for all your help on this!
